- This is the world's
largest earthquake simulator.
It's called E-Defense.
Its huge shake table can
support a 10-story building
and then move it in all directions
with the force of the world's
most destructive earthquakes.
E-Defense has conducted
more than a hundred tests,
subjecting all kinds of buildings
to different simulated earthquakes,
all to learn how to make buildings
more earthquake-resistant.
Part of this video was
brought to you by Shopify,
more about them later in the video.
On the 17th of January, 1995
at 5:46 in the morning,
an earthquake struck
the city of Kobe Japan.
It took everyone by surprise.
Japan is one of the most
seismically active countries
in the world.
It sits on the boundary
of four tectonic plates
and 90% of all earthquakes,
and almost all of the powerful ones
happen at tectonic plate boundaries.
But Kobe isn't near one.
This earthquake was caused
by an interplate fault,
essentially a crack in the Earth's surface
that isn't at the boundary
of a tectonic plate.
This fault hadn't produced any earthquakes
for around a thousand years,
so the city was completely unprepared.
(woman speaking in Japanese)
The quake measured a magnitude 6.9
just under the definition
of a major earthquake.
Despite this, the earthquake
killed more than 6,000 people
and left another 300,000 homeless.
More than 80% of the
fatalities were caused
by the collapse of buildings.
The total economic cost was estimated
at 80 billion US dollars.
In response, the government
gathered scientists
for a conference on earthquake
disaster prevention,
and there they agreed
to build the largest earthquake simulator
the world had ever seen.
So I sent Petr to Japan
for an exclusive look
inside this facility.
- So we're entering the world's
biggest earthquake simulator
as they're about to do an experiment.
So let's go.
Right now there's eight concrete walls
that they're gonna feed seismic signals
into the shake table,
and they're gonna see which
ones are the most sturdy.
So the seismic data that
they're gonna feed in
is from the El Centro earthquake,
which was an earthquake
that happened on the 18th of May, 1940.
It was a 6.9 magnitude earthquake,
and it's one of the first ones
that we actually have seismic data from.
Oh.
Okay, things are wow, wow,
wow, wow, wow, wow, wow.
Oh, oh.
Okay.
It is just really cool to
see such a big structure
kind of moving that far and that fast.
Wow.
The first test that I actually saw,
it was on the schedule
and it said white noise.
- So the white noise is just
all different frequencies,
low frequencies, high frequencies,
everything in between.
- Yeah.
They make this big deal.
They're like, oh, one minute,
like, and then they do like
the 10 second countdown.
Three, two, one.
And then it's just like
functionally nothing.
We flew all the way to
Japan to to see this,
so let's hope at least one wall falls down
and I couldn't figure
out why for a long time.
- All the structure has natural frequency.
When the structure is damaged,
natural frequency becomes shorter.
So by inputting white noise
with components of wide range
of frequency, so we can
find natural frequency
of building.
So first, input white noise fast,
and after that input as quick motion,
and then we we usually
input another white noise
so we can find a change
of natural frequency.
- [Derek] At the center of E-Defense
is a 20 meter by 15 meter shake table,
which weighs 800 tons.
On each side there are
five hydraulic actuators,
which push the table side to side,
and the whole thing is supported
by another 14 actuators at the bottom,
which moved the table up and down.
The whole facility is massive.
There is one warehouse where
the shake table is housed,
but it's in such high demand
that all the buildings are constructed
in a separate warehouse and
then transferred across.
Then there is a whole
area full of giant engines
and nitrogen storage tanks
just to power the shake table.
- [Petr] Oh my God.
This is a huge engine.
- [Derek] Using this setup,
the scientists can perfectly simulate
past earthquakes and determine
their effects on different buildings.
The shake table can hold
masses up to 1200 tons
and jolt them with accelerations
up to 15 meters per second squared.
That's over one 1.5 gs.
Now, I know jet fighters can
pull like 10 gs as they turn,
but it's another story
if you're in your house and
the floor starts accelerating
faster than a falling object.
The goal of the shake table
is to realistically simulate earthquakes.
To do this, you need two things.
A way of being able to apply enough force
in a precise and controlled
way, and the signal data
from real earthquakes.
This is how they do it.
- Are you okay at high elevation place?
- Let's see.
(both laughing)
- This one is actuator.
- The actuators themselves are hydraulic.
Inside each one, there's a 30 ton piston
driven by high pressure oil.
- This is massive.
This is, I don't know, a meter,
meter and a half in diameter.
- [Derek] But to generate
the pressure needed
to operate the shake table
and sustain it for minutes at a time,
E-Defense needs huge
reserves of pressure storage.
That's why there's a whole
section of the warehouse
with massive high pressure
storage tanks full of nitrogen.
- We have 20 of these lead
spherical shaped accumulators,
so we accumulate the pressure.
- To pressurize these
tanks liquid nitrogen
is pumped in from a large
storage tank outside,
and as that liquid warms
up, it turns into a gas
and expands 694 times its original volume.
It's relatively easy
to obtain very high
pressures with nitrogen.
Then when the pressure is needed,
it's transferred to the oil
using a bunch of pistons.
As the test runs, the oil
is pumped to the actuators
by these giant engines,
but even they can't
sustain the pressure needed
to operate the shake table for very long.
And so the nitrogen pressure reserves mean
that the shake table can deliver
a consistent amount of force
from the start of the
test right to the end.
While a test is run, the
pressurized oil needs to be pumped
to the actuators by the engines.
The flow to each actuator is controlled
by electronic servo valves,
meaning precisely timed
and measured forces can be applied
to the table to match any earthquake.
Now, because the actuators can
only move in one dimension,
if they were fixed directly to the table,
there would be no flexibility
and they would break.
And so the engineers at
E-Defense designed bespoke
seven meter long universal joints
to transfer the force from the
actuators to the shake table.
To simulate real earthquakes.
The shaking can't be random.
I mean, each earthquake has its own
characteristic pattern of movement,
which can be recorded using a seismometer.
Early seismometers were
basically just a pen attached
to some springs, drawing a line
over a moving roll of paper.
And when there was an
earthquake, the pen would shake
and draw out the pattern of
acceleration of that earthquake.
The trace that was seen on the paper
is known as a seismograph.
Nowadays we use geophones.
A geophone is made from
a coil of wire suspended
around a magnet all
held together by springs
when the ground shakes, the springs shake,
causing the wire to move up
and down over the magnet,
which generates a current.
This current is recorded
to produce a seismograph
to get the full picture
of how the earth's surface
moves in all three dimensions,
three geophones are needed,
one oriented in each orthogonal direction.
The strength of an earthquake is measured
on the magnitude scale.
The smallest earthquake
that humans can feel is about
a billion times less powerful
than the biggest earthquake ever recorded.
Because of this, the magnitude
scale is logarithmic.
An increase of one on the
magnitude scale represents
a tenfold increase in the
force of the earthquake.
An earthquake under 2.5
on the magnitude scale
is imperceptible to humans.
These happen millions of times every year,
but can only be detected by geophones.
Earthquakes higher than
six on the magnitude scale
can damage buildings, but
occur far less frequently,
only a few hundred times a year globally.
The most powerful earthquake ever recorded
was the great Chilean earthquake of 1960,
which measured 9.5 on the magnitude scale.
It killed somewhere
between 1 and 6,000 people
and caused more than 400 million
US dollars worth of damage.
But how destructive an earthquake is
isn't just determined by the magnitude.
It also matters how
close the epicenter is.
- Behind me is what was until 2022
the world's longest suspension bridge.
The Akashi Kaikyo Bridge connects Honshu,
the main island of Japan to Awaji Island
nearly four kilometers away.
The center span the distance
between the two towers is 1,990
meters and 80 centimeters.
I'm here because a few
kilometers that way,
and 16 kilometers
underground was the epicenter
for the Great Hanshin earthquake of 1995.
As the earthquake struck,
the bridge was still under construction.
And despite being right
above the epicenter,
there was no major
damage to the structure.
But the earth underneath
the bridge had moved,
and the original plans
would no longer work.
The plans would need to be modified.
So that's how the world's
longest suspension bridge
became 80 centimeters longer.
- [Derek] After E-Defense opened in 2005,
one of their first tests was a comparison
between two traditional
Japanese wooden houses.
The houses were transported
from the nearby city of Akashi.
They were rebuilt on the table
and shaken at the magnitude
of the Kobe earthquake.
The house that stayed up
had been retrofitted with wooden braces,
beams, and metal joints making
it more earthquake resistant.
The other was unmodified.
This test demonstrated
that older Japanese houses
are not able to withstand
powerful earthquakes.
It also presented a solution.
Some relatively simple
and inexpensive structural reinforcement
can significantly increase
earthquake resistance.
- In 1981, the Japanese
government introduces
like all these new building
codes for new houses, right?
And they're like, you need
this kind of seismic dampening,
you need these isolation things.
You need these like wooden beams.
All of the buildings that
were built post 1981 in Kobe
0.3% of them collapsed
during this earthquake.
Of the ones that didn't, 8.4%,
like about a 30 time difference
between new houses and old houses, right?
This is kind of like weird thing,
like I was there on day one, you know,
watching like the shake table work,
and I'm just kind of like looking around
this entire, like this giant warehouse,
and I see this section
where it's just like,
what looks like IKEA furniture?
Can you tell me what this is for?
- To see the, you know, in room safety,
yeah, we place lots of furniture
in the structured specimen.
- A lot of the injuries, right,
that happen in earthquakes
is from stuff falling
on top of you.
A cabinet falling over
and hitting your head,
or, you know, you being crushed
by a fridge or something like that.
Half of the injuries that were sustained
indoors in Kobe were from,
you know, furniture
falling on top of people.
So one of the things that
E-Defenses does is like,
how do you make sure
buildings don't collapse,
but it's also how do you make sure
that the insides of the
buildings are also safe?
- This part of the video was
brought to you by Shopify.
You know, back in 2015,
I came up with Snatoms,
a better way of modeling molecules,
and I've been using Shopify
to sell Snatoms ever since.
And over those last eight years,
I found Shopify really easy to work with.
They offer an all-in-one commerce platform
that anyone can use to sell
products, manage inventory,
or grow their business.
One of my favorite things about Shopify
is the depth of data that they provide.
You can see real-time data
on how many people are on
your site at any given time
and how many are checking out.
Plus, from the analytics,
I can learn which products
are selling and when.
There are more than
8,000 easy-to-use apps,
which help with ad tracking,
integrating your shop
with TikTok or Pinterest,
or automatically recommending
frequently bought products.
Despite it being so powerful,
Shopify is incredibly easy to use.
So if you are just
starting out your business
or side hustle, or if you
wanna make the sales process
more efficient, you really
should be using Shopify.
They power more entrepreneurs
than any other platform
with millions of businesses
in 175 countries.
Seriously, Shopify is great,
and for a free trial, you can
go to shopify.com/veritasium
or just scan this QR code.
And if you wanna buy a Snatoms kit,
there is a link for that
in the description too.
So I wanna thank Shopify
for sponsoring this part of the video,
and now back to earthquakes.
- So for this next test,
they're gonna feed in the seismic signals
from the Great Hanshin earthquake
which is also known as
the Kobe earthquake.
It only lasted for about 20 seconds,
but it had a magnitude of 6.9,
and the maximum acceleration
was about 0.9 g,
which is, you know, kind
of crazy to think about
for an earthquake.
Oh boy.
Like, that rumble.
Oh man.
Oh, the whole building is,
oh my God.
How short that was and
how powerful that was.
Boy, earthquakes are no joke.
- That's a nice way to
observe an earthquake.
Like how else can you
observe an earthquake
without being subject
to that shaking, right?
No one has got to experience
the Kobe earthquake
from like just right
beside it, but not shaking.
- In Kobe earthquake, we
recorded very, very large motion,
but it's very short.
But in 2011 in Japan earthquake,
we recorded very, very
long duration motion,
like five minutes.
And the bottom one,
it's expected earthquake
in future Tokai Tonankai earthquake.
So we are expecting very,
very long duration motion.
- [Petr] How do you predict
what kind of earthquake
you're going to get
- Ask seismologists.
- [Petr] I'll ask seismologists.
- I'm sorry about that.
- No, that's good.
That's good.
- Seismologists give a 70% chance
that a magnitude eight
earthquake will occur
somewhere near the Tokai region,
home to more than 15 million people
within the next 30 years.
The Nankai trough located off
the southeast coast of Japan
is where the Eurasian plate pushes
against the Philippine plate and produces
a massive earthquake
every 100 years or so.
But the Tokai region hasn't experienced
such an earthquake in over 160 years.
The government estimates
that more than 320,000 people
could lose their lives.
Most fatalities will likely be caused
by the 30 meter tsunami,
but a quarter, around 82,000,
could result from building collapse.
This is why earthquake
preparedness is such a big deal.
- Newly built buildings
are very, very safe.
You know, they, they have
very high seismic performance.
So even in a very, very large earthquake,
you know, these buildings can survive.
- [Derek] Except in extreme cases,
most new buildings in Japan can survive
most large earthquakes.
So the next challenge is
to keep them functional.
Currently, even when
buildings don't collapse,
water pipes often burst leaving people
without water and electricity,
and so they still have
to leave their homes.
This is the next challenge
they're trying to solve at E-Defense.
- So now we can prevent a fatal collapse,
but now we have to think how to prevent
this kind of functional loss.
- [Petr] You guys are now at the step
that's beyond what I was thinking, right?
My step was like, how do we make sure
that houses don't fall down
and you guys are like, yeah,
no, we figured that out.
We can make sure that
houses don't fall down
more or less.
Doing this very important work
like you guys are making
the world a safer place.
You guys are making Japan a safer place.
You're updating building codes to make it,
you know, so fewer people die.
- What I love about the story of E-Defense
is that Japan didn't simply
wait for more earthquakes
to happen and just hope for the best.
They spent billions in research
to prevent people suffering
from these disasters.
They realize that while they can't predict
the next big earthquake,
they can make sure
that they are prepared
when it does happen.